README.md, before:

# CE-DECORATORS
ce-decorators is a typescript library for custom element development. It's powered by the great [lit-html](https://polymer.github.io/lit-html/guide/writing-templates.html) for effective DOM updates. The decorator API is similar to stenciljs but without the need of a special compiler, just the ts-compiler is needed.

I just created the small ibrary for my own needs but I'd like to invite everyone to use it if it suits.
The decorators are compatible with IE11 (needs babel transpile), Chrome, FF, Edge, Safari and the mobile Safari and Chrome Browser.

For IE11, Firefox, Safari Browsers you need the `@webcomponents/webcomponentjs` polyfill (for ShadowDOM and ShadyCSS), if you taget ES5 you also need either babel or the `custom-elements-es5-adapter.js` from the webcomponentjs project. If you target IE11 you also need `core-js` for the `Map` and `WeakMap` polyfill. Unfortunatelly, lit-html is ES6 so you need @babel/preset-env to compile it down to ES5.

The decorators will take care of style registering if the ShadyCSS scoping shim is needed, attribute-property reflection with type transformation from attribute to property and vice versa and there is a small cheap "dependecy injection" functionality built in via the @Inject decorator. All in just 10kb (22kb with lit-html bundled)

# But why???
I'm lazy and I don't like to write much boilerplate code, furthermore you have intellisense since all properties are named and have type.

# Install
`npm install ce-decorators`
important! you need the following compiler settings in your tsconfig.json
```json
"emitDecoratorMetadata": true,
"experimentalDecorators": true
```
after that you can import the decorators
```javascript
import { Component, Prop ..} from 'ce-decorators'
```
If you want to target ES5 Browser you have to let babel do the heavy lifting.

# Sample
```typescript
import { Component, CutomElement, Prop, Watch Event, EventEmitter } from 'ce-decorators'

@Component({
    tag: 'my-custom-element'
    style: `
    :host {
        background-color : #f0f;
    }
    `
})
export class MyCustomElement extends CustomElement {

  @Prop()
  propertyOne: string = "default value";

  @Event()
  change: EventEmitter<string>; // will trigger a custom event of type "change"

  @Watch('propertyOne')
  propertyOneChanged(oldValue:string, newValue:string) {
    console.log('propertyOne Changed');
  }

  @Inject()
  myService: MyService;

  render() {
    renderToDom`<div>${this.propertyOne}</div>`
  }
}
```

# Usage with Angular
For angular you need to activate the `CUSTOM_ELEMENTS_SCHEMA` after that custom elements can be used like angfular components

in the component
```javascript
import './my-custom-element'
```
in the template
```html
<my-custom-element [propertyOne]="this.propertyOne" attribute-one="this.attributeOne" (change)="$evt => handleEvent($evt)">
</my-custom-element>
```
# Usage with react
In react you need to pass everything as attributes
```jsx
import 'my-custom-element';

render(<my-custom-element property-one="{propertyOne}"></my-custom-element>)
```

Commit message:

added babel stage-0 decorators support

README.md, after:

# CE-DECORATORS
ce-decorators is a typescript library for custom element development. It's powered by the great [lit-html](https://polymer.github.io/lit-html/guide/writing-templates.html) for effective DOM updates. The decorator API is similar to stenciljs but without the need of a special compiler, just the ts-compiler is needed.

I just created the small ibrary for my own needs but I'd like to invite everyone to use it if it suits.
The decorators are compatible with IE11 (needs babel transpile), Chrome, FF, Edge, Safari and the mobile Safari and Chrome Browser.

For IE11, Firefox, Safari Browsers you need the `@webcomponents/webcomponentjs` polyfill (for ShadowDOM and ShadyCSS), if you taget ES5 you also need either babel or the `custom-elements-es5-adapter.js` from the webcomponentjs project. If you target IE11 you also need `core-js` for the `Map` and `WeakMap` polyfill. Unfortunatelly, lit-html is ES6 so you need @babel/preset-env to compile it down to ES5.

The decorators will take care of style registering if the ShadyCSS scoping shim is needed, attribute-property reflection with type transformation from attribute to property and vice versa and there is a small cheap "dependecy injection" functionality built in via the @Inject decorator. All in just 10kb (22kb with lit-html bundled)

# But why???
I'm lazy and I don't like to write much boilerplate code, furthermore you have intellisense since all properties are named and have type.

# Install/Compability
`npm install ce-decorators`
important! you need the following compiler settings in your tsconfig.json
```json
"emitDecoratorMetadata": true,
"experimentalDecorators": true
```
after that you can import the decorators
```javascript
import { Component, Prop ..} from 'ce-decorators'
```
If you want to target ES5 Browser you have to let babel do the heavy lifting.

## with babel
for babel you need the following dependencies (at the moment only stage-0 proposal decorators are supported)
```json
"@babel/plugin-proposal-class-properties": "^7.0.0",
"@babel/plugin-proposal-decorators": "^7.0.0",
"@babel/preset-env": "^7.0.0",
"@babel/preset-typescript": "^7.0.0", (optional only when using typescript)
```

in the babel config you just have to enable the two plugins:
```javascript
plugins: [
  ["@babel/plugin-proposal-decorators", { legacy: true}],
  ["@babel/plugin-proposal-class-properties", { "loose" : true }]
]
```

If you use the decorators with babel you have to specify the typ for Prop and Inject otherwise it won't work 🙁

# Sample
```typescript
import { Component, CutomElement, Prop, Watch Event, EventEmitter } from 'ce-decorators'

@Component({
    tag: 'my-custom-element'
    style: `
    :host {
        background-color : #f0f;
    }
    `
})
export class MyCustomElement extends CustomElement {

  @Prop()
  propertyOne: string = "default value";

  @Event()
  change: EventEmitter<string>; // will trigger a custom event of type "change"

  @Watch('propertyOne')
  propertyOneChanged(oldValue:string, newValue:string) {
    console.log('propertyOne Changed');
  }

  @Inject()
  myService: MyService;

  render() {
    renderToDom`<div>${this.propertyOne}</div>`
  }
}
```

# Usage with Angular
For angular you need to activate the `CUSTOM_ELEMENTS_SCHEMA` after that custom elements can be used like angfular components

in the component
```javascript
import './my-custom-element'
```
in the template
```html
<my-custom-element [propertyOne]="this.propertyOne" attribute-one="this.attributeOne" (change)="$evt => handleEvent($evt)">
</my-custom-element>
```
# Usage with react
In react you need to pass everything as attributes
```jsx
import 'my-custom-element';

render(<my-custom-element property-one="{propertyOne}"></my-custom-element>)
```
